TESTING.md, before:

## CONTENTS
  - [Bugs](#bugs)
  - [Lighthouse](#lighthouse)
  - [Validation Testing](#validation-testing)
    - [HTML \& CSS](#html--css)
  - [Python Testing](#python-testing)


## Manual Testing

| TEST | OUTCOME | PASS / FAIL |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Register Account | Account created correctly | PASS |
| log in | log in correctly | PASS |
| log out | log out correctly | PASS |
| Add Review | Add Review goes to admin for approval | PASS |
| Delete Review | Deletes Review | PASS |
| Edit Review | Review sent to admin for approval | PASS |
| Book Requests | Goes to admin panel to add a new book | PASS |

## Bugs

This project came with a lot of bugs during production - all of which were fixed before final deployment.

Some notable ones:
- Delete button not working when trying to delete a comment
- Update button not working after editing a comment
- Database issue when trying to add a new field, resulting in having to create an instance, delete and then re-create the database.


## Lighthouse

The performance scores appear to be low, and this is due to the cookies and images uploaded for each book having to render in from a third party platform. The Desktop view has higher performance ratings. The best practise score is low across all formats as the cloudinary links are not https.

### Home
#### Mobile

![Lighthouse Mobile Home Score](documentation/lighthouse/mobile_home.png)

#### Desktop

![Lighthouse Desktop Home Score](documentation/lighthouse/desktop_home.png)

### Home
#### Mobile

![Lighthouse Mobile Home Score](documentation/lighthouse/mobile_book_details.png)

#### Desktop

![Lighthouse Desktop Home Score](documentation/lighthouse/desktop_book_details.png)

### Book Requests
#### Mobile

![Lighthouse Mobile Book Requests Score](documentation/lighthouse/mobile_book_request.png)

#### Desktop

![Lighthouse Desktop Book Requests Score](documentation/lighthouse/desktop_book_request.png)

### HTML & CSS

HTML & CSS testing was completed using [W3 Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)

When validating the code, I had the errors shown below. this was fixed by replacing the id with a class instead.
![Duplicate ID error](documentation/testing/duplicate_id.png)


![HTML Validation - Descendant Error](documentation/testing_documentation/validation/base.html_button_descendant.png)

Fixed:

![HTML Validation Complete- base.html](documentation/testing_documentation/validation/index.html_validation_complete.png)

Commit message:

corrected spacing issues in book requests python files for reviews app

TESTING.md, after:

## CONTENTS
  - [Bugs](#bugs)
  - [Lighthouse](#lighthouse)
  - [Validation Testing](#validation-testing)
    - [HTML \& CSS](#html--css)
  - [Python Testing](#python-testing)


## Manual Testing

| TEST | OUTCOME | PASS / FAIL |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Register Account | Account created correctly | PASS |
| log in | log in correctly | PASS |
| log out | log out correctly | PASS |
| Add Review | Add Review goes to admin for approval | PASS |
| Delete Review | Deletes Review | PASS |
| Edit Review | Review sent to admin for approval | PASS |
| Book Requests | Goes to admin panel to add a new book | PASS |

## Bugs

This project came with a lot of bugs during production - all of which were fixed before final deployment.

Some notable ones:
- Delete button not working when trying to delete a comment
- Update button not working after editing a comment
- Database issue when trying to add a new field, resulting in having to create an instance, delete and then re-create the database.


## Lighthouse

The performance scores appear to be low, and this is due to the cookies and images uploaded for each book having to render in from a third party platform. The Desktop view has higher performance ratings. The best practise score is low across all formats as the cloudinary links are not https.

### Home
#### Mobile

![Lighthouse Mobile Home Score](documentation/lighthouse/mobile_home.png)

#### Desktop

![Lighthouse Desktop Home Score](documentation/lighthouse/desktop_home.png)

### Home
#### Mobile

![Lighthouse Mobile Home Score](documentation/lighthouse/mobile_book_details.png)

#### Desktop

![Lighthouse Desktop Home Score](documentation/lighthouse/desktop_book_details.png)

### Book Requests
#### Mobile

![Lighthouse Mobile Book Requests Score](documentation/lighthouse/mobile_book_request.png)

#### Desktop

![Lighthouse Desktop Book Requests Score](documentation/lighthouse/desktop_book_request.png)

### HTML & CSS

HTML & CSS testing was completed using [W3 Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)

When validating the code, I had the errors shown below. this was fixed by replacing the id with a class instead.
![Duplicate ID error](documentation/testing/duplicate_id.png)

## Python Testing

Python pep8 validation was done via [Code Institute's Python Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/)

The errors received in the Python testing were the 2 blank linkes after imports and the extra line at the end of all the code.
There was also the occasional blank space at the end of a line of code and some lines of code were too long.

Python Files Tested:

- models
- forms
- views
- urls
